   Case 1:04-cr-10385-MEL   Document 108   Filed 08/28/2008   Page 1 of 2



                        E N D O R S E M E N T


UNITED STATES v. JEROME WEEKES
04-CR-10385-MEL

LASKER, D.J.

          Defendant Jerome Weekes (“Weekes”) moves for
reconsideration of the June 25, 2008 Order (the “Order”) denying
his motion for a new trial. Weekes also seeks a ruling on his
claim for ineffective assistance of counsel.

          Defendant’s counsel asserts that in support of his
previous motion for a new trial, filed on February 22, 2008, he
provided an affidavit that he believed sufficiently established
Kelvin Brown’s unavailability at the time of Weekes’ trial.
(Def.’s Supp. Memo. in Support of Mot. for New Trial, Ex. 1.)
The Order found otherwise, stating that Weekes’ attorney had not
taken adequate steps during trial to show that Brown could not
testify. Defense counsel now argues that because of his failure
to demonstrate adequately Brown’s unavailability at trial, Weekes
could not testify to Brown’s statement. Defense counsel notes
that the jury required several days to deliberate before reaching
a verdict, implying that such a long period of time indicated
that the jurors were torn over defendant’s guilt. Weekes’
attorney reasons that if Weekes could have testified to Brown’s
admission, the jury probably would have acquitted defendant.
Defense counsel, therefore, concludes that he was ineffective
during trial, and his client is thus entitled to a new trial.

          The United States responds that Weekes again has failed
to move for a new trial pursuant to FED. R. CRIM. P. 33. In his
motion to reconsider, Weekes argues ineffective assistance of
counsel, not newly discovered evidence, as the basis for a new
trial. Rule 33(b)(2), however, requires claimants to file a
motion within seven days after the verdict is entered if such
motion is based on grounds other than newly discovered evidence.
The United States thus contends that Weekes’ motion is untimely.

          The United States adds that to the extent Weekes is
attempting to recast his motion to reconsider as a § 2255
petition, it must be denied. While a defendant’s direct appeal
of his conviction is pending, a district court should not
consider a § 2255 motion absent “extraordinary circumstances.”
See United States v. Luciano-Mosquera, 63 F.3d 1142, 1158 n.9
(1st Cir. 1995); see also United States v. Gordon, 634 F.2d 638,
638-39 (1st Cir. 1980). Because such circumstances are not
present here, Weekes’ § 2255 petition must be denied.
   Case 1:04-cr-10385-MEL   Document 108   Filed 08/28/2008   Page 2 of 2



           Next, the United States contends that Weekes’
ineffective assistance of counsel claim is without merit. A
petitioner making such a claim not only must show that his
attorney’s performance was “so inferior as to be objectively
unreasonable”, Bucuvalas v. United States, 98 F.3d 652, 658 (1st
Cir. 1996), but also that but for his counsel’s deficient
performance, the trial’s outcome would have been different. See
Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668, 687 (1984); see also
United States v. Hart, 933 F.2d 80, 83 (1st Cir. 1991). The
United States claims that here, even if Weekes’ attorney had
established Brown’s unavailability to testify, thereby avoiding
his “ineffectiveness,” the trial’s result would have been the
same: Weekes’ counsel still would have been unable to provide
corroborating circumstances clearly indicating the
trustworthiness of Brown’s alleged exculpatory statement. See
FED. R. EVID. 804(b)(3). Without such corroborating evidence,
Brown’s purported statement remains inadmissible, and the trial
outcome would not have differed. And even if the disputed
statement had been admitted, the United States maintains that
virtually all of the evidence at trial contradicted Brown’s
alleged admission. The United States reasons that in convicting
defendant, “the jury necessarily rejected [Weekes’] entire
testimony.” (U.S.’ Opp. to Mot. for Reconsideration, at 6.) Had
Weekes been allowed to testify to Brown’s supposed statement, the
jury most likely still would not have found his testimony
credible and would have convicted him.

          For the reasons as stated above in the United States’
Opposition, the Motion for Reconsideration of Order Denying
Motion for New Trial and Request for Ruling on Claim of
Ineffective Assistance of Counsel are therefore DENIED.

          It is so ordered.

Dated:    August 28, 2008
          Boston, Massachusetts            /s/ Morris E. Lasker
                                                  U.S.D.J.




                                   -2-
